Let us look at static variables and recursion.
We have seen how to trace recursion.
We have also seen how a recursive function utilizes a stack.
Then what if there are any static variables, how to treat them inside recursive function?
So here I have an example function recursive function, though there are no static variables right now
without static this function, I will trace it and show you that if the static is introduced, then
I'll show you what should be the difference.
First, let us see what the function is doing.
I will read it out.
I'll explain what these things are said.
It is a function fund which takes parameter and if any value is greater than zero, then it will call
itself the decrease value of N and also add.
And so then this plus end will be done in time or done in time.
I have done that or in time that if the value of any zeroed in on returns, the zero and four main function
dysfunction is caused by passing a that is five not to show how they will work inside the memory.
I have already taken a diagram for the memory that I am showing code section for the functions are there
then how the stack is used, I'll explain.
First of all, I will treat this function for value five and through the tracing tree first.
The function is called for the value five.
So this is one of five and five is greater than zero.
Yes.
So it will call this one.
So it will call itself for one of four plus this n oh let it be blank here.
That will be filled with the value of and what is the value of in here.
Five.
I'll use it afterwards, then it will call itself for three plus four should be added.
I leave it as a blank then one of two three should be added.
I will leave it as a blank, then one of one two should be added, then one of zero one should be added
and one of zero is zero.
This is you know, it goes back.
This is zero plus one.
This is one.
So this will be one.
And result of this one is one plus this is two.
So this will be three.
Then the result of this is three and this is three.
So this will be six.
So the result of this one is six plus four.
This will be return.
The result of this one is ten and five.
So this will be fifteen.
So the result of this is fifteen.
So this is the tracing of a function then it is called upon value five.
No, let us see the activation records are created.
Then the activation records for fun will be created.
Value of N will be five, then the value of N will be for value of and will be three.
So this is all stock is created every time for each new variable will be created inside the memory and
it will have its value.
That is five, then four, then three, then good.
And one and zero.
So all these values are newly created every time, whenever the function is called this.
We are aware of local variables of a function.
I am going to make changes in this function.
Then we will see how to handle static variables.
So I'm making modification.
Static variable integer x whose values zero initially and before calling, I'll be incrementing it and
while returning I'll be adding X.
So this is not adding N, adding X and X's increment and it is static.
So first of all, where this is static, variables are created, they are created inside the code section
or there is a subsection of code section called section for global variables and static variables.
But I'm shooting directly inside code section and the value of that one is zero.
Will is a static variable be created every time whenever the function is called?
No, it will not be created every time.
When the function is called, it is created only one time that is at the loading time of a programming.
So this X will not have multiple copies, just like N it will have a single copy.
So all these calls of this function, they will use the same copy of X, so I cannot have a separate
copy each time like N four and every time a new copy created one for X there is a single copy.
Now what will be the result of this function?
For that I will press it again.
So for that I will remove these things and I will try it again.
Let us look at the tracing and see how static variable should be handled for.
The static variable, it is X, so I should have a single copy of static variable separately, don't
show it and they're pressing three none, not this time.
First time the function is called by passing that define.
So values five.
First time one of five.
Then if N is greater than zero, yes it is greater than zero explicitness this X becomes one then call
itself one of four plus this X will be added at returning time.
So use it at returning time.
Don't use it now.
Continue for this call again for four is greater than zero X plus plus.
So this X becomes two call function of three plus X should be added at returning time, then call greater
than zero X plus plus call itself.
So three call for two X plus plus then plus this X should be added then for this call again this is
four and call for one plus X should be added before this call.
This becomes five and call for zero plus X should be added.
Call for zero, return to zero.
So the result of this function as a zero note will start returning back from here.
So this is zero plus X has to be added.
So what is X number five?
So this is fine and a third of this is fine.
Then X should be added.
What is X non five.
So the system.
So the result of this function is ten then plus X should be added here.
So what is X now.
Five.
So this is fifteen C in the previous example we were adding N, so end was having its own value in each
call.
So those values were used.
But now there is only one single copy of X, so each call will use that same copy.
And right now it is having value five so that same five is utilized by all.
So this result is fifteen plus a five.
So this is twenty then twenty plus five is thirty five.
So the result of this function is twenty five.
So that's it.
This is how you should handle static variables, if there are any static variables inside recursive
function, don't show them in each step of placing three right them just like global or outside variable
and maintain a single copy of it.
So sometimes we need to use a static variable also in recursion.
So I have shown you how they work.
Now, if it is not static, if I take out this variable and if I declare it outside like a global variable,
then also the result will be same.
So static variable will have a single copy and even global variable.
It will have a single copy used by all the function calls.
And those global variables are also created inside code section.
And every call will use the same copy and the result of the program or the function will be sync.
So in the previous example it was 15, but now four five.
The result is 35.
So here in print the result will be thirty five.
So in the coming examples, we will use this recursive function that static variables.